---
# YAML metadata
bibliography: dash.bib
geometry: margin=2cm
fontsize: 11pt
fontfamily: arev
linkcolor: blue
urlcolor: blue
---
<!---
This document should be completed in Arial 11pt, margins must not be less than 2cm, and each page should be numbered. The final version must not exceed 2 pages (the instructions and guidance notes should be deleted).

Your capability to deliver should be a narrative explaining the team’s
experience and expertise relevant to delivering the proposed programme. You
should explain the contribution to the project of each named Investigator
(PI/Co-I), including a clear time commitment. This should be in the form of
a succinct personal statement, providing evidence of the skills and expertise
they will bring to the project. CV information which simply lists past
positions, publications and funding will not adequately support an application.

Guidance

Only one document should be completed per application, regardless of the number
of named investigators. Personal statements should include information on areas
such as those listed below. You can determine the appropriate balance of
information relevant to your team and the goals of your proposal:

1.  Role within the project, and time commitment
2.  Relevant skills and expertise, for example:

    Contribution to the generation and flow of new ideas, knowledge, tools, and
    approaches

    Examples might include: key skills and contributions to past projects, key outputs such as data sets, software, research and policy publications, experience in provision of quality training resources. The relevance to delivering the proposed project should be summarised.

    Contribution to research teams and the development of others.

    Examples might include: project management, supervision, mentoring or line
    management contributions critical to the success of a team, or where you
    exerted strategic leadership in shaping the direction of a team,
    organisation, company or institution. Teaching/ training activities (e.g.
    workshops/ summer schools) delivered to different audiences.

    Contributions to the research community

    Examples might include: how you have contributed to wider collaborations
    and networks across disciplines, institutions, and / or countries, open
    research, commitments such as reviewing and committee work, positions of
    responsibility, and activities which have contributed to the improvement of
    research integrity or culture, or examples where you have shown visionary
    strategic leadership in influencing a research agenda.

    Contributions to broader society

    Examples might include: engagement with the public and/ or private sectors,
    how you have ensured your research/ training reaches and influences
    relevant audiences, how you have increased equity in the benefits from
    research.
-->
**Matthew Brett** is the project PI; he is currently a lecturer in data science
at the University of Birmingham (UoB).  He trained and practiced as a doctor
before moving into research; he has published in cognitive neuroscience, brain
imaging methods, statistics and computing (current h-index 36).  He is also an
experienced scientific software developer who has significant contributions to
the primary Python packages, is a Scipy core developer, and a co-author on the
recent Numpy and Scipy papers in Nature / Nature Methods.  Aston, Turkheimer
(below) and Brett wrote the first reproducible paper in brain imaging, in 2006.
Brett was a teacher-researcher in Berkeley from 2008-2017, during
which time he developed new code-to-learn teaching methods for data science and
brain imaging, and co-led a radical and successful undergraduate course on
reproducible data science (see ref in case for support).  He has much
experience of leading and working in open-source communities; he co-founded the
successful Neuroimaging in Python initiative (<https://nipy.org>) and led
various successful software projects, including the Nibabel, a widely-used base
library for brain imaging in Python.  He teaches undergraduate and master's
level data science using R and Python, has run his own JupyterHub cloud
instance at Birmingham, and publishes his current Python course online with
a permissive license.  He commits to 40% of his time and will lead main project
meetings, collate, develop and share teaching materials for the main FoDS / RDS
courses, and coordinate development work for Open edX and JupyterHub / notebook
integration.

**Juan Klopper** is a specialist surgeon, educator, and data scientist. He is
a leading figure in the development of modern data science material, using
platforms including Coursera, Udemy, RPubs, GitHub and YouTube. His Coursera
course on biostatistics for healthcare professionals has nearly 100,000
learners and has been listed in the Top 50 courses of all time on the indexing
platform Class Central since 2017. He is also the only lecturer with three
courses on the platform; his course on computational thinking for statistical
analysis using contains an honours module on deep neural networks for use in
clinical healthcare and radiological diagnosis. He was the 2014 Open Education
Consortium Educator of the Year. He has more than 1,400 lectures on YouTube
nearing 1,500,000 views, subjects include linear algebra, calculus, graph
theory, statistics, machine learning and deep neural networks, and clinical
medicine.  He teaches using R, Python, Julia and Mathematica; his code is
freely available on Github. Juan is the Faculty representative the Senate
Committee on Online Education of the University of Cape Town, and has been the
Head of Research, the Head of Surgical Education, and the Head of the Acute
Care Surgical Unit at Groote Schuur Hospital.  He commits to 50% of his time,
and will use his extensive experience with online data science learning to
contribute to development and teaching of the core courses and will lead the
connector course on probability.

**Peter Hansen** (20% time) is a senior lecturer at UoB, and specializes in
computing, data science and neuroimaging.  His training and early research were
in physics, with a heavy emphasis on computing, after which he ran a successful
consultancy company for programming and algorithms. Later he rejoined academia
to work on brain imaging in Oxford, and UoB, including recent work with big
data in brain imaging databanks.  He has been the departmental lead for IT and
a committee member for the University IT strategic board. He currently runs the
UoB post-graduate (PG) brain imaging course, and has led the PG programming
course. He will help build the contribution frameworks, contribute to
coordination on computing development work, and teach on, contribute to the
foundation and reproducible data science courses.

**Valentin Danchev** (20% time) is a lecturer in Computational Social Science
the University of Essex. He uses large datasets and methods from computational
social science to study issues including transparency and reproducibility of
scientific research, human mobility, global migration, inequality,
digital-health interventions, and data sharing and reproducibility of research
claims in biomedical sciences. He publishes data and code in Python and R as
Jupyter Notebooks on OSF and Github, and teaches introductory computational
social science and data analysis to students without prior coding experience.
His courses cover basic data handling as well as machine learning, causal
inference, and network analysis, using Jupyter notebooks.  He will contribute
to materials and teaching for main foundations course, and will lead the
development of the computational social science connector course.

**Federico Turkheimer** (15%) is Professor of Neuroimaging (Analysis & Statistics) at King’s College London (KCL). He has training in electronic engineering, Nuclear Medicine, and biostatistics (at NIH), and has worked at Cambridge and Imperial College.

His main research interest has been the development of models of brain function and, for this purpose, the development of quantitative markers of brain function using imaging (MRI, PET, EEG). His work, mostly on technical mathematical statistical methods and their applications, has resulted in more than 200 papers and is highly cited (>18,000 citations, H-index = 68, Google Scholar). Current interests are built on the use of Complexity Science to understand brain function and its disorders and he is module leader and lecturer of the 3rd Year Module Complexity and Psychiatric Disorders of the new BSc in Neuroscience and Psychology at KCL.

FT has been teaching statistics (both introductory and advanced topics) to undergraduate and graduate students in the Faculty of Medicine for more than 20 years, his courses have been very popular and resulted in the publication of the book “Statistics without equations” that has been extremely well received by readers. For the last 3 years he has focused is teaching workload on the Distant Learning MSc Programme at the Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience that now enrols more than 1,000 students where he is module-leader for Neuroimaging and regularly acts as supervisor for >15 students at a time.

Besides his academic work, FT has been working as a consultant with industries (pharma, finance, marketing) in developing quantitative tools and analytics to support their business development.

FT is very familiar with computational approaches to statistical analytics having published in this area. In this programme FT will be responsible for the coding-to-teach modules that relate to multivariate analysis that will be structured by first introduce the basic computational approaches that allow the creation of multivariate probability distributions. Beyond that, the programme will then move towards the computational approaches to standard ANOVA and ANCOVAs models and conclude with an advanced part on repeated measures and mixed model approach. All the above will be carried out through a deconstruction approach that will build code for these apparently complex analytics into understandable tools via simple elementary steps.

**Brenda Williams** (10%) time is a neuroscientist with a passion for inclusive education. As deputy head of Department of Education for Basic and Clinical Neuroscience, institute of Psychology, Psychology and Neuroscience (IoPPN), and the Faculty Assessment and Feedback lead, she engages with colleagues and students to integrate and promote innovative neuroscience education and to help shape digital education at both Faculty and College level. She pioneered the introduction of distance learning at the IoPPN and is now Programme Lead for two highly successful online MSc programmes: Applied Neuroscience and the Psychology and Neuroscience of Mental Health.

Research Skills are a crucial element of every MSc programmes and Brenda and her team have created a range of materials to teach and evaluate such skills. Working in the online environment also brings with it the challenge of engaging students, developing a community of learners and engendering a feeling of belonging. She will use her experience in these areas to support the development and implementation of the training in reproducible data science presented in this application.

Brenda also has experience of working with a range of stakeholders to meet project deadlines. The development of the distance learning MSc programmes required liaising with design and development staff, Academic Records, programme administrators, academics (\> 100) and teaching fellows to manage expectations and to deliver excellent teaching materials. This network she had built across the IoPPN will be pivotal in helping to grow the community of contribution described in the application. Brenda will also provide access to a distinct online student body. These students come from diverse backgrounds and from across the world, many

**Robert Leech**

Robert Leech is Professor of Neuroimaging Analytics at King’s College London, in the Department of Neuroimaging at the Institute of Psychiatry, Psychology and Neuroscience.  His research has focused on developing and applying neuroimaging methodologies to better understand the relationship between brain and behaviour. His work is inherently multi-disciplinary, with collaborations across disciplines including computer scientists, machine learning experts, cognitive psychologists, clinicians, bioengineers and physicists. 
His research has involved working with many programming languages (including Python/R/C/C++/C#/Matlab) for data analysis. His work also involves combining behavioural and neuroimaging data with sophisticated visualisation software; he has extensively used both 3D modelling and 3D gaming software, in a range of research contexts, including simulating brain-environment interactions and most recently for the online delivery of a gamified battery of cognitive tasks for assessment of autism. In the context of reproducible data science, his work has involved developing automated machine learning approaches for data exploration/inference and prediction as well as theoretical work demonstrating how these approaches can improve the reproducibility of scientific findings. He was also an editor for the journal Neuroimage’s special section on reproducible neuroimaging. 
His teaching has been heavily inspired by the coding-to-learn philosophy, teaching coding and data analysis to primarily postgraduate students in the context of cognitive psychology and neuroscience for >10 years. At King’s College London he is the module lead for neuroimaging for the applied biostatistics MSc and will be the module lead for computational neuroscience and machine learning in the new BSc in Psychology and Neuroscience. Prior to joining King’s College London, he was modulate co-lead for the MSc in Translational Neuroscience Neuroimaging module; this was a coding-to-learn module delivered online and in person, where students were gradually introduced to the main concepts in neuroimaging analysis and visualisation from the ground up, through coding. 
